# Personas

## Blender User

- Capable of using blender (beginner thru expert)
- Occasionally or permanently creating 3D content
- Willing to show his/her creations to others

## 3D Artist

- Rather professional
- Contributing to a collaborative goal such as a computer game or a 3D animation movie. 
- Works within in (semi-)automated production pipelines


## Pipeline Technical Director

- Sets up production pipelines with 3d artist collaboration
- Needs to integrate artist without teaching them computer science

# User Stories

> _“As a [persona], I [want to], [so that].”_
> 
> - _**"As a [persona]"**: Who are we building this for? We’re not just  after a job title, we’re after the persona of the person. Max. Our team should have a shared understanding of who Max is. We’ve  hopefully interviewed plenty of Max’s. We understand how that person works, how they think and what they feel. We have empathy for Max._
> 
> - _**"Wants to"**: Here we’re describing their intent — not the features they use. What is it they’re actually trying to achieve? This statement should be implementation free — if you’re describing any part of the UI and not what the user goal is you're missing the point._
> 
> - _**"So that"**: how does their immediate desire to do something this fit into their bigger picture? What’s the overall benefit they’re trying to achieve? What is the big problem that needs solving?_
>
> Taken from [Atlassian](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/project-management/user-stories)


## Show work

As a blender user, I want to easily display my blender work on the internet, so that average internet users can interactively inspect my work.

As a blender user, I want to set-up a collection of my work, so that I can display all 3d assets within that collection in a similar mannner. Furthermore, I want to choose the display style from a set of collections.


## Contribute

As a 3D artist, I **do NOT** want to leave my editing environment (blender), so in order to push my contribution down the processing pipeline, I can use simple tools from within blender.

As a 3D artist, I want to concentrate on my artist work and contribute to the overall pipeline without hassle, so that by simply saving my work and (if necessary) clicking som.


## Integrate

As a Pipeline TD, I want to ..., so that ...

# Main Features

ginder will be implemented as a Blender Add-on and hook into various places in the blender UI.

## Features

- Log-on to GitHub using OAuth to register ginder with the current GitHub user 
  - -> Add-On Preferences
- Log-off from GitHub (unregister ginder from current GitHub user (if possible)) 
  - -> Add-On Preferences
- Visit the GitHub user's site when registered with GitHub
- Add a sub-menu **GitHub by ginder** to the File menu with the following menu entries (available only if prerequisites match). If possible, show the name of the repo surrounding the current .blend file directly in the menu entry, e. g. **GitHub - {RepoName}**
  - **New Presentation Repo**: Open a file/folder selection dialog to select a directory. Create a new presentation repository based on FreeDee (by using a template rather than by forking - to bee researched). Set the default save location to the local directory. Intelligently handle the "file not empty" case
  - **Save and Publish**: Will save the current file, perform a commit (with an autogenerated commit message) and push upstream (possibly triggering a web export CI action). 
  - **Revert to previous**: Revert to previous commit, possibly undoing any not-staged changes.
  - **Open {RepoName} on GitHub**: Opens the repo surrounding the current .blend file (if any) in the web browser.
  - **Settings**: Open the ginder Add-on preferences dialog.
- Once logged on, when a .blend file is loaded, check if it belongs to a git repository (e.g. by looking for a '.git' subdirectory reversly along the directory path and performing a 'git status' if found before root). If so, activate menu items in the "GitHub by ginder" sub menu. If not, keep menu items disabled (besides "Settings")
- Additionally allow more fine grained control from controls within the Scene tab of the Properties editor,  allowing to 
  - specify/edit a commit message
  - show related files, separate files linked by the main .blend from other changed/indexed in the git repo and selecting which to index/commit
  - Allow to fetch/push/pull to upstream manually.
  - Allow to revert files
  - Show current status of CI action and allow user to navigate to presentation Web URL (if ).

- Additional ideas 
  - Check if a File->New template will be of much use
  - Find a way to add commit/message/push options to the blender standard file save dialog 
  - Add an export filter

